# DevExtreme - A simple master-detail example


<p>A master-detail data presentation pattern is often used in business applications. This example demonstrates two techniques that can be used to implement a master-detail layout for a mobile application based on the DXTREME HTML/JS framework.</p><p>This example uses the Northwind database. If you do not have this database installed, follow instructions provided here: <a href="http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/20987/HowTo-Install-the-Northwind-and-Pubs-Sample-Databa"><u>HowTo: Install the Northwind and Pubs Sample Databases</u></a>.</p><p>The classic master-detail layout consists of two list containers. One is used to display a list of master records, and the other displays a list of records owned by a selected master record. In this example, this layout is represented in the DxSample.Client.Tablet application.</p><p>The screen consists of two <a href="http://phonejs.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/Widgets/dxList"><u>dxList</u></a> widgets bound to <a href="http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/observableArrays.html"><u>observable arrays</u></a>. The List widget will respond to all changes made to the content of an observable array, such as removing and adding items.</p><p>In this example, it is assumed that data is retrieved from the database through the OData WCF service created with the approach described in this Knowledge Base article: <a href="https://www.devexpress.com/Support/Center/p/S170409">How to create a DevExtreme WCF OData service</a>. Therefore, the ODataStore component is used to communicate with the service. This document describes in detail how to setup stores: <a href="http://help.devexpress.com/DevExtreme/Howto/Data_Stores#Set_up_a_Store"><u>Set up a Store</u></a>. In this example, the store is configured in the DxSample.Client.Shared project. The relevant code is located in the <strong>dxsample_client.shared.config.js </strong>file. The code specifies endpoints an entity settings.</p><p>In the view model class defined in the categories.js file of the DXSample.Client.Tablet project, data is loaded via the <strong>load </strong>function of the ODataStore object. This function allows you to perform additional operations against data, as described in this document: <a href="http://help.devexpress.com/DevExtreme/Howto/Data_Stores#Advanced_Queries"><u>Advanced Queries</u></a>. This example uses the <strong>expand </strong>option to load detail data along with master records in one query.</p><p>The itemClick event of the List object is used to update the detail collection. This task is simple, because detail data was pre-populated during loading. A master record corresponding to a clicked item can be obtained via the <strong>itemData </strong>property of the argument passed to the event handler. This item already contains a collection of detail data.</p><p>The selected item is visually highlighted in the list using the <a href="http://knockoutjs.com/documentation/style-binding.html"><u>"style" binding</u></a> approach. For this purpose, each master record is extended with the <strong>selected </strong>observable property added in the <strong>select </strong>function invoked by the ODataStore component for each item from the <strong>load</strong> function.</p><p>The DxSample.Client.Mobile project illustrates a slightly different approach. Master and detail data are displayed in separate views, because a phone screen is too small to display two lists in one view. The DxSample.Client.Mobile project uses the same ODataStore component from the DxSample.Client.Shared project. However, this time it is not necessary to perform complex queries. Thus, it is possible to take advantage of features provided by the <a href="http://help.devexpress.com/DevExtreme/Howto/Data_Stores#DataSource"><u>Data Source</u></a> object. </p><p>Take special note of the List item template definition in the categories.dxview file. The template division has a <strong>data-bind</strong> attribute that is used to create an Action. The Action's parameter is an URI with parameters bound to the view model properties (CategoryID and CategoryName). This URI specifies an address to open a Products page and passes two parameters to the view model creation callback. These parameters will be used to filter detail data and define a view caption.</p>

<br/>


